Good evening, sir.
Good evening, sir. Good evening, everyone. Good
Evening, sir.
Sorry. Actually, uh, Saturday I was traveling, so like,
uh, I was returning from hydro,
but the problem occurred is bus got delayed by more than two
and a half hours, so I should have been returned by 9:00 AM
I returned at almost 1130
or 12, so I had to like, uh, in last minute, I had
to actually reschedule the class.
I'm really sorry for that inconvenience. No, sir.
We got some time. Oh, it's, uh, fine.
Okay. So I'll share the screen first.
Yeah.
Okay.
So screen is visual, right?
I think there's a green border.
I don't know why it is coming.
Yeah, screen is visible, so, Okay. Okay. Thank you.
So from the previous classes, we dealt with the,
like classification issues till, uh, uh, that is n base.
Uh, we have done this one.
So, uh, from today
and worse, uh, like, uh, we have to dive into like, uh,
this, uh, unsupervised machine
learning, uh, techniques and all.
So, uh, I hope you are having the theoretical idea.
What is the, like, uh, this unsupervised learning, right?
Yeah. Yes, sir. Yeah. Cool.
It's, uh, without level data, without the target. Well,
Yeah, so we are having the data,
but we are actually not mapping from input output
or dependable to India independent variable.
We are not mapping. So that is our, uh, um, you know, um,
the, whatever the algorithms we are dealing with,
those are like unsupervised learning algorithms.
So the first algorithms you hear about
that is a clustering algorithms we are having came in
clustering, hierarchy clustering.
Apart from that, we are like having a very famous algorithm
that is, uh, PCA.
Okay? Uh, that is the principle component analysis,
and we are having the Disney, uh, that is another algorithm
for visualization aspect.
So I'll actually dive one
by one into this game in clustering this, uh, PCAA
and ti, uh, and we'll see like how much time permits.
So I'm planning to like, uh, in previous classes also, I,
uh, discussed that instead of taking one, uh, you know, uh,
algorithm in like, uh, each of the labs,
we can call up multiple labs together.
And what we can do like, uh, you know, uh,
jump into neural networks, we discuss about various things
and all, and we utilize the time as, uh, like, uh, along
with that one, you can also discuss
about the various projects.
You can, like, you know, uh,
show me some projects if you are like having some
discussions and all, and we can like, uh, uh,
together we can like, uh, you know, uh,
build the models and all.
So those time we can like, uh, utilize in that way.
So that is the idea, like I had.
So, so today we'll be starting that is the like, uh, basic.
That is the, uh, came in clustering, right?
Let's start with this one.
Okay?
Okay. So the idea of the clustering algorithm is, uh,
suppose, uh, yeah,
whenever we are discussing about some
of the e-commerce website
or maybe, uh, you know, uh, YouTube per se,
or maybe even our Google, uh, that feed we discuss about
that, like, uh, Google fit, uh, that is the, uh,
goal now feedback
and not, so for every person, those are different.
So that has been customized and all. So what is happening?
Suppose I'm buying, uh, like the famous example
for the unsupervised machine learning is,
and now e-commerce website, if I'm buying a bread, uh,
you know, uh, the e-commerce website will suggest me whether
I need to, like, I'll purchase some jam
or peanut butter, something like that.
Or maybe milk, which is, which are very associated
with like people who have purchased previously, uh, bread.
They have also, you know,
taken those items like into that category.
So the, what is happening, so we are having x, y,
x suppose, and multiple, you know, data points are there,
and we are doing basically is segregating the data points.
So suppose this is one cluster,
this is another cluster, okay?
So we are dividing the groups
into different, different categories.
So what is happening is suppose, uh, like, uh, the people,
uh, suppose who are listening to like a, um, songs,
the older songs suppose, uh, listen
to the older songs, those kind of era.
So suppose those categories are in this one, uh,
this is a red one,
Okay?
Uh, so
There's a red one.
So ba basically what is happening, whoever
actually has similar music, listen, interest something
to me, those songs will be recommended to me.
And suppose a few of the people who are into like a modern,
uh, rock song, something like that.
So they're into like those kind of songs.
So whoever there, they'll be having these kind
of cloud points where they'll be referred
to the similar music genre and something like that.
So that is the idea. So now what is happening, we
give the data set to the model or algorithm,
and they continuously train itself till a certain point.
It reaches to a limit where it sees
that it is not changing very much.
Something like that. That is the idea.
Once it is done, then it is,
it'll have some clusters and all.
Let, let's understand what are the like factors we need
to understand before, like Cain clustering.
So in the Cain clustering what is happening, you have
to have one, uh, aspect that is
Yeah,
yeah, it's not working.
Yeah, yeah.
So here as, uh, assigning one, that is the value of K.
So K is the number of clusters.
So if I put a value that is K to two, so basic idea, idea is
what about the data set?
We are having this data set, we are basically saying
that two categories I'm dividing the data into.
If I had said instead of two, if I have written that four,
so this data set instead of like two,
I would've been like divided into four categories,
the four different categories.
So that is the first, you know, parameter.
You need to think of like the number of K,
what is a parameter we're giving fine.
Now, understand this feature, how this algorithm works
and all will drive into the factor.
So
What is,
So suppose we are having this kind of dataset,
fine in this dataset.
What is happening? First, the step is you need
to choose like a, the K value.
Suppose I'm saying that K is two, okay,
K is two.
So basically the first idea will be we'll be choosing two
central values, K as in number
of clusters we are segregating the dataset into.
For each of the clusters, we'll have one OID thing, okay?
One oid thing. So I'll write it somewhere here, so as well,
Okay? I think
open text. Yeah.
So the first step is you'll define the sum K value.
K value is dependable.
How many, you know, clusters you want?
So number of clusters you're first defining, okay?
Based on that, okay, randomly,
suppose K is equal to okay, n
value we are choosing.
So in number of clusters,
we'll be segregating the data into.
Now, in the third step, what, what will happen?
We'll select in number, like, we'll select in number of
data points
as oid.
Okay? Now, think of this randomly in number
of clusters we needed for n number to cluster,
the center point will be acting as a Synthroid.
Okay? Randomly we'll sell it. Then what are the next effect?
And all is you understand.
So the first idea will be we'll be having two dataset.
Uh, this is a very, uh, bad drawing.
Sorry, I'm actually starting this user
interface, so you bear with me.
So the first idea is two, uh, like, uh,
this value we will be choosing.
Okay? That's nice.
Okay, so suppose this is the K one,
this green one, another central we are choosing,
suppose this the, uh, suppose it's a gray one, fine.
So based on these, we first calculate
the data points distances, okay?
Now think of it, suppose this data point we're discussing,
the data point is this one, this data point fine.
Now this data point, what we'll do,
we'll measure the this, oh, sorry, this is the,
Okay, Suppose this data point, uh, this one, okay,
this data point, we need
to identify like which cluster it belongs to.
The first it will do so we'll, uh,
like use the Euclidean distance, just like your, uh,
came in, uh, like, uh, algorithm.
So we'll find a distance from this point to this point
and this point to this point as well.
Fine. So both distance, D one
and D two, suppose you calculate, okay,
D two you calculator.
So whichever is lesser.
So that point will become, you know, uh, belong
to the same cluster community.
Okay? Now, once we like, uh, calculate this distance,
we'll able to find out the D 2D one is
smaller, then the D two.
So what happens? This data point, okay?
That will be, you know, converted into this cluster.
Okay? So this cluster, again, I'll measure for this one.
So suppose this distance and this distance, okay?
Again, I'll find the, this distance is less,
so I'll recolor this one.
So as in gray, suppose I'm measuring
for this data point, okay?
So this distance and again, or this distance, okay?
So whatever list that will be rectified as a new data point.
So this will recolor again.
Now for each of the like data points,
we are calculating what we need to do.
One step actually, uh, didn't tell you
that is once you calculate the new data points,
that is the suppose this is the new data point we
have discovered.
Now this, along to this data point,
we'll update the cent value.
Currently the OID value of the data, uh, cent value
of the data that is this one.
Now in between I'll average this one
and somewhere this will be the new cent value
of the cluster.
Again, I'll give you example.
Okay?
Excuse me, sir. Yeah, this, uh, central is a single data,
uh, point or it's, it's multiple as you said,
it's number of data points. Yeah.
Again, let me explain.
I think like it'll be like central is like,
uh, the K value we defining the number of clusters, okay?
Yeah. Based upon the cluster, each cluster will be,
have a center point of that.
Yeah. So if you draw a vertical, okay,
the center point value will be the oid.
So those central values will be depend upon the number
of clusters you are actually segregating
the data points into.
Okay? That's, that central value will have more than one
data set, or oh, it's one data point
or more than one data point.
Yeah. Let me like give you another example. Suppose
Because we are measuring, uh, the distance
of each data point from these Android.
Mm-hmm. Am I right? Am I right? Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Yeah. So suppose this is another data
point you're having, okay?
Now I want to, uh,
like segregate this data point into some cluster.
Suppose K is equal to two.
Again, we are selecting, so two, you know, cent values,
we need to randomly choose suppose two centered value,
different color I'm choosing.
So also for one centered value, I'm choosing this one,
Okay? Okay.
And for another, for randomly we're choosing
or not, uh, choosing a very distance and all.
So second one, I'm taking this orange color.
Suppose, uh, this value
Fine. Okay?
Now the idea is you'll take one point at one time.
Hmm, yeah. Suppose I'm calculating for this point,
I'm calculating for this point in middle fine.
So first, this is the OID K one, suppose,
and this is a K two,
okay?
You are having two OIDs, K one and K two, that is the orange
and green fine and middle.
There is a like point, I want to identify
that point whether belongs to K one, oid, K one cluster,
or K two cluster fine.
So I'll simply measure the, uh, Euclid distance, the D one,
Okay, And D two,
and I'll find out which is listed or more so in this one.
Suppose the D one is yes less than D two fine.
So I'll say this data points belong to the green one,
A one cluster, yeah.
Yeah.
So I'll actually recolor this
one into green.
Fine, okay? Now once you are done that
your old OID value, the K one was this one.
Mm-hmm. But once you have,
find out like new data points within the K one group,
now you need to like add all of the data points.
Currently it is having two data points
and you'll average it out.
So new data points will be,
or central eight points will be K one
will be in this one portion,
Okay? Okay,
So this is the new K one.
Okay? Updated K one.
You can say, uh,
okay, similarly, suppose we are measuring for this point,
and let's just go and find out different point for this one.
So we are calculating for this one, okay?
Easily we are able to see like, uh,
no from visibility point.
Does this one will be belong to the orange one? Yes.
Okay, so I'll recolor this one into orange.
That is the idea. Okay?
Now the center value, previously this was K two,
this the central value of the second cluster,
but I have found a new data points in the,
like a, you know, orange cluster.
So I have to update the cent value of this cluster, okay?
Now it'll be shifted towards little bit on the, you know,
raw, like a upright version.
So K two value, the, you know,
average value will be this one.
So this will be a new K to value.
So instead of this one, we'll have a new
centered value K to this one.
So basically, there again, you'll choose something, okay?
In this one, this will also belong to the orange one.
Now, once you do for all of the data points,
this all will become orange fine.
This all will become your green
Roughly.
I'm saying there's the one iteration you are having,
and the central value of the K will be somewhere
around this one, and the orange central value will be
somewhere around this
point, Okay?
This will be your K two, and this will be your K one.
So that is how the algorithm works.
Fine, it continues, gives updated.
Once it sees that data points are already completed
and the OID value are not moving,
even the data points are not getting changed, okay?
So that I will also show you.
Now what happens is
after one iteration of the data points, having some kind,
you know, central value and all.
Now what happens, suppose in a data set,
suppose you are having this kind data set
and the K value you are choosing first the random value.
Suppose this is the K value you have chosen on first one
and the second one, suppose this one, fine.
Now, according to this, what happens, like on the initial,
you know, uh, that is the like, uh,
clustering, you'll have this one, this segregation, okay?
Now, distance to this, to this
and this to this, like roughly suppose first we're
calculating, okay?
So this point we're discussing, so I'll say it belongs
to the left side cluster firstly, so I'll choose this one,
but once this first iteration completes,
the OID value will be somewhere around this one for this,
uh, left cluster and for the right cluster,
somewhere in this one, again, I'll do the calculation
for all of the points.
Again, I'll calculate the between this and this, the values
and the points of all of them, even these points
and that point everything.
And if I found this D one
and this D two, whichever less suppose, D one,
this one later, previously it belonged to this cluster.
Now I can update and like it can go to this cluster.
That is one of the things.
It goes on and on till all of the points are like segregated
and belongs to some of the data points and all.
Okay, I hope this was helpful.
Let, let's go to like A PPD Yeah, that I have created.
So that one will be able to understand like
what are the things that is going on now.
So as we already discussed,
it is an unsupervised machine learning,
mostly using ity, uh, functions.
That is like in e-commerce
or like mostly recommendation system.
You are already a consumer. You are using the platform.
What kinda, you know, uh, similar things
or like useful things I can show you like, so you can like,
uh, use the platform in a better way.
You have a better, uh, usability in the platform.
Suppose YouTube you are homepage
and if you're clicking some videos,
related videos are coming.
Those are all actually, uh,
comes under this clustering algorithms fine.
Now, definition is the K means is a iterative,
unsupervised algorithms.
That part instance, that dataset in observation
in k distincts non overlapping subgroups,
that is the clusters we are dividing
the dataset pointed into.
Each data points belong to a cluster with the nearest mean
or the OID and oid,
we are always updating if new data
points we are calculating.
That is the thing, okay?
The goal in this algorithm is you need
to minimize the variance within the cluster.
So within the cluster, if the data points are there,
their distance should be lesser.
So to, uh, minimize the distance,
we are always updating the oid, okay?
We are averaging out the OID value
and we are also maximizing the variance
between the clusters.
Between the clusters. We are trying
to actually make the distance as large as possible.
So also pushing over the central OID
by basically averaging it out.
That is the idea. Okay?
Now we already discussed, uh, customer segmentation.
Uh, also, uh, these are the few other,
another like a different algorithm.
So like image compression for those one,
suppose multiple sets of blue are together.
So you can use some kinda, you know, clustering algorithms
to make or like average out the, uh, blue color, okay?
And segregate that into like, this is the color.
So that is like one of the major examples.
Suppose you are having 10 bit image, so 10 bit images
to were 10 that is like, uh, billions
of combinations of colors.
But most of the, you know, devices,
displays are mostly our eight bit displays.
So to eight is 65,000, roughly combination zero to,
uh, 65,000.
So from 1 billion color to 6,500 color, lot
of color you have to compress for those things.
Also, this image compressing techniques, this piece, uh,
this, um, came in clustering is also helpful.
You are separating all of the gradient of blue, supposedly
of sky into one simple blue, and you are putting
and displaying that one also the animal data detection
and know, like, uh, traffic data points are coming and all,
and you are seeing some random points, which is like,
you know, uh, that is, uh, coming out like, uh, outliers
and all that way you can detect this is a like hacking kind
of things, which is coming, something like that.
Okay? The algorithm we already discussed,
we initialize the K value.
That is the how many clusters we want.
So K data points are initial oid, okay?
And after this initialization of K number of, uh, k,
what about the like value we have selected those many OIDs
we are choosing, or from the data points
we're selecting randomly.
Okay? Now, second is assigning each data points
to the closest oid.
So whatever the data points are there,
we are measuring D one
and D two distance from like a D three distance based upon
number of clusters, and we are assigning each
of the data points to one of the closest clusters.
Then we are, uh, you know, recalculating the, of each
of the clusters by taking the mean of the assign points.
So one point repeat is coming, I'm updating
by averaging out the values
with the new data points on the existing cent one, okay?
Once it is done, repeat step two to step three,
these two steps until cent do not change.
Okay? This value cent value is not getting updated,
the data points are not getting accepted to here
and there till that point, you, the algorithm need
to actually iterate, okay?
That is the process, that is the algorithm.
Simple one, okay?
And secondary thing, you have
to average out the central points with all
of the data points within the cluster.
That is the thing, and it is a reputation process of the,
uh, step two and step three.
Okay?
I think one example I, okay, another thing like there,
there is a, like a function, like how can you choose
how many, you know, clusters.
I need to choose a, like a, for the data set, I need
to differentiate in like
how many categories we need to define.
K can be any number, right?
Some from two to a number of values you can choose.
So based upon this like elbow method, we say, uh,
we actually plot this one, uh, with the, that is the, uh,
weighted, uh, sorry, within cluster sum of square values.
So that is the formula. Uh, with respect to that cave value,
we actually plotting
and we'll be seeing a sar elbow kind of, you know, uh,
pattern that is the data point that will be there
from the point where the like, uh, sar, you know,
not sar recognition that is happening,
the convergence point, we can say that
cave value will be the optimal for the data point.
So it is a kind of, you know, where you are totally blind,
you don't know what to do in those basis.
You can choose this case.
Suppose you are having a like smaller amount
of data than you can always, uh, know, have the idea,
like inspect that these many categories want,
suppose you are dealing with without data where like, uh,
you know, social media network kinda things which is
happening, billions of data points, billions of users,
something like that in those categories,
you can use this elbow methods to identify
how many segregation you need to do for doing the clusters
of that algorithm and all that is the idea, okay?
Now, the advantage disadvantage, apart from this one,
this algorithm came in clustering the segregating
into multiple data points.
Uh, we are also having another, uh, algorithm that is, uh,
h clustering that is very similar, uh,
but, uh, works, uh, very good, uh, like, uh, uh,
for smaller amount of data.
But if you're having larger amount of data due to the,
like less complexity on, uh, resource for hunger ness
or let's say resource hunger, this algorithm is very
useful, but there's a problem.
Uh, see what happens.
Uh, like, uh, uh, uh, few are the problem.
That is like, uh, in many of the points
where you are segregating the data points,
if initial points are chosen bad,
the initial central values, then the conversion
or the segregation were not very successful, okay?
Might be one sided where the data points you want like 50
or 55 to 45 separation in two clusters,
but the initial central values somewhere they choose on the
very right hand side or very left hand side.
So what happens, the, the differentiation segregation
between the cluster data points become 10% versus 90%
there, or two clusters.
So those were like, uh, those are the very problem we deal
with the, like a came in clustering.
So which are being solved
by this came in plus plus algorithm
that you can also find out the internet
and their source code and all.
Okay? So that is the gaming clustering.
I hope you are having, if you are having any questions
and all, we'll try to solve it.
Is it fine? Should I actually proceed? Yes, sir.
We can proceed. Yes, it is clear, sir.
Yeah, I think it is very simple algorithm. Okay?
Uh, there's not much to get confused on.
Okay? Second one will be having this PCA
principle component analysis.
Okay?
Now what happens in PCA,
you are having a data set.
Suppose the dataset is enormous insights.
Suppose data is having hundreds of, you know, features
that is the columns and like millions of data points.
So, and maybe like, uh, like, uh, you know, many
of the columns are not very relevant
for your machine learning on deep learning algorithms.
You're having huge amount of dataset,
which is not very useful for your, uh, data interpretation
or like machine learning,
deep learning model algorithm training, uh, as well
as another problem you are facing, uh,
that is a computation.
Computation is huge amount
of like a problem when you are dealing
with a large amount of dataset.
So this PCA principle component analysis is a very useful
tool where you are having supposed 10, you know,
dimension of data or 10 features of data.
So you can convert this 10 feature
of data into supposed two dimension data, two feature
or maybe even three feature that is depending upon you.
So you're converting these 10 features
into two features, okay?
Or maybe three features,
but instead of, you know, losing 80% of the value in case
of this one if you like, generally do will lose 80%
of the data here will lose 70% of data here, okay?
Because we are dropping, uh, eight columns
or dropping, uh, seven columns, we might lose suppose 10
to 10% of data.
So that is the PCA.
So you are reducing the size by 70%, 80%,
or maybe even 90% of data you are compressing,
but you are retaining the information of the entire data set
that is that you of 10 features data you are retaining in
two, you know, columns
and the data sanctity will be like, uh,
usefulness will be 80 to 90% on maybe mode.
That is the idea. So you are not losing much of the data,
uh, like, you know, usefulness of the original data
by combining and like doing some, um,
voodoo magic kinda thing in this PCA and retaining the data.
Okay? So see
what is happening is the,
you are having the data, you are doing some kinda, you know,
or there's a statistical analysis
based on the statistical analysis you are
creating some planes or how like, just like you are
or, uh, no, in this case not that one.
So you are creating some kind of planes
and we, you are actually plotting the data onto that access
and you're trying to find out like which are
more relevant to that one.
Okay? So the best part
of this algorithm is like high dimensional data.
If you're having hundreds of, you know, uh,
features dimensions in a dataset, you are not able
to train the data or like do inspection of the data.
You can reduce the data with A PCA
still written 90%
or 95% of the datas, you know, uh, the information,
but you won't be actually dealing with
that one secondary thing.
If you're reducing the data size, also,
you are reducing the computational cost.
So your computational cost
and computational time both will drastically improve.
Uh, third benefit is this one we are having also, uh, like,
because your human can't per like you perceive
beyond three dimension, that is another benefit.
You can do the, you know,
visualization aspect also like hundreds
of data points we cannot visualize,
but three dimension data we can visualize that is the idea,
Okay?
Uh,
In like this, uh, PCA is like, you know,
another information.
This algorithm
before machine learning, like this algorithm was, uh, uh,
initially introduced in 19 0 1.
So it is like 125 years old.
It is a, it is a statistical tool
and it has been used in the industry
and the statistical, you know, society for a long period
of time they have been using this one.
Uh, so basically whenever they have to deal
with a larger volume of data, they use this technique
to reduce the data into smaller size
to do some kinda analysis and all.
So in the finance, okay, uh, recently in computer vision,
genetics, marketing, manufacturing,
wherever the data size is huge, uh,
this algorithm is mostly used.
That is the idea,
Okay? Now, how
these are done, uh, that is the first, uh,
like few of the standard thing like, uh, factors
that we have to, uh, factor in
that is the one is standardization.
Whenever you are applying the PCA, you need
to think the mean value of the data points should be zero.
So the standardization is, uh, the Z score normalization,
the values are actually scaled from minus one to plus one
being the mean value is zero.
Okay? Second thing, you do the core variance metrics,
computations, you find out this one, okay?
From based on that one,
you identify the egen values and egen vectors.
This is important
because you need to identify, you know,
which direction I can, you know, twist the data without,
you know, not losing the sanctity of the data.
That is the egen value. Egen vectors best I icon, uh, like,
so, so you example of like you are having the data,
you don't want to win the data,
but you are, you want to have a like modified version
of the data where you can present this one.
So that is where the egen values egen vectors most use.
So if people are asking you what is the, like most use case
for the egen values, egen vectors and computer visions
and all, or sorry, uh, the machine learning
and deep learning, the usage is PCA.
Okay? Once you have this egen value, iGen vectors,
now you know the direction in which way I can, you know,
push the data sets on all.
Now you can have a invasionary plan, we can plot
or like drop the data points and have another plane,
and from there you can show the data points.
That is your, uh, like new PCA.
Okay? Okay. So this I will explained,
Huh?
Now being an example, suppose we are having two sets
of data that, uh, x, y, so five data points are there, okay?
Uh, so
2, 3, 3, 5, 4, 4, 5, 6, something like that.
Uh, once you are having the data points here, one, uh, uh,
point is missing the standardization
that is missing, but still local.
Let's go with this one.
Uh, so first all, uh, calculate the mean of this one.
This x mean y mean you calculator find
the center data points.
So center data points, that is the, from the mean you are,
uh, doing the minus, so two minus four and three minus five.
So for first one, we are having the centered value,
that is the minus two, minus uh, two
for the third three and five.
So three minus four, that is minus one five. Minus five.
So we are having zero. So similar way calculate this one.
Now going to the third one, that is the, like, you have
to do the coherence metrics calculations based on the
equation, and you have to, uh,
find out the gon decomposition value
finding of the egen values.
Okay? And igon vectors, once we find out these values,
we have to go and do this one that is the,
based on this, uh, iGen values.
iGen vector will be having this PC line
that is the principle components,
and based on the number of principle components,
we'll find out like in which way we are plotting the 10
or 15, you know, uh, dimensions of data into one plane.
And we are finding out this is the
relevancy of the data points.
That is the idea, okay?
Now, one thing you need to keep in mind
whenever actually applying the PCA to
minimize the dimensions on, minimize the data size, you have
to go through a screen plot, screen plot.
You'll find this library within the, what happens, uh,
suppose you are having, uh, you know, 10 dimension
and you are converting the data points into, uh, suppose,
uh, okay,
Suppose you are having 10 dimensions, okay?
In a data set, and you are actually thinking
to apply the PCA in one PCA, you are applying for like, uh,
converting into two dimension,
and another PCA you are applying
and you're fine, like converting to three dimension.
Now, uh, like, uh, in from 10 dimensional, two dimensional
with three dimension, maybe you convert this into four
dimension, but how do you know that,
like which dimension is more useful?
Whether I should go in for like two, like, uh,
using two principle combined analysts to convert the data,
or I like convert the 10 dimension
to three dimensional, a four dimension.
How do I do this? So you need the idea,
I have the idea of the screen plot.
Screen plot is something, uh,
where actually you are plotting this one
and you are trying to find out like what is the, you know,
relevancy of this, each of the principle compound
analysis compared to the dataset.
This PC one 70% is saying
that whatever the original data you had, okay,
70% of the information the PC one is carrying.
I repeat, suppose I have a 10 dimension of data
that is a hundred percent of data.
We are not manipulating this one.
Now, from the 70%
of data you are applying PC one only one component lesson
one, one dimension.
You're converting the data into that one dimension
of PC one will carry 70% of information of the 10 dimension.
So does dimension data eight dimension of convert layer,
that PC one will retain 70% of the data.
What did p want more than 70% of the data? Fine.
So if you apply this PC two, so instead of PC one, you are
modifying this one, I want two PCs out of this data points.
So second PC is giving you 20% of the extra information.
So you cumulatively add these two.
So if you're using two PCs for the dataset conversion,
you are roughly having 90%
of the information from the original data.
Now again, suppose you add this third one.
Third one is suppose again 15%
or not 15%, maybe 8%.
So if you use three PCs, you'll have 98% of data.
So if you do the screen plot, you'll understand
how many PCs you need to represent the data
and what amount of percentage
of the dataset that is the idea.
Okay? So each of the dimension will represent
how much information they are retaining, okay?
So ideally we go somewhere around 90 to 95%
of data we try to retain.
So the idea is if you're having the data,
you do the script plot based on that you choose, okay,
this many PCs we will be having, uh, to represent the data
for 90 to 95%.
That is the idea. Fine.
I hope you understand this workload is very important
for this, you know, whole thing.
Yeah. Again, I'll repeat, okay,
you are having a hundred dimension of data, okay?
A hundred features data points.
Maka have, sorry, uh,
there is a dataset in this dataset.
You are having a hundred of columns, a hundred columns go up
to pc, apply how many columns you want.
If you apply PC is equal to uh, PCA
and components, you are putting one.
So basically you'll have one dimensional
of data from exo dimensional data converter,
one dimension data, but that one dimensional will keep
how much information per,
as a percentage from the original data
that will be given by the screen plot.
Now, the PC one, PC two, PC three,
whatever the components are there, you add on those
and try to find out 90 to 95%
of the data you are keeping, okay?
For the rest you there is, there is very significant amount
of gain you are getting with adding the number
of features that is the idea.
So PC two, PC three are mostly actually, uh, the,
uh, uh, principle components.
The in components two
or three we mostly relied upon to get the maximum out of it.
That is the idea, fine. Okay. Any questions from this one?
No, sir. I think pretty much clear.
Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. That is excellent. Okay.
Another thing we are having,
but I don't think, like, I don't want to overload you, uh,
that is Disney.
Okay? And that is t stochastic neighboring embed.
So this algorithm basically is similar to PCA, uh,
but uh, in a holistic manner, okay?
So, uh, what is happening for,
like you are having in dimensional data,
a hundred dimensional data, you cannot plot
that data in a three dimension space or two dimension space.
To visualize this Disney algorithm is like helpful
to plot higher dimension data into two
dimensional, three dimension.
That is the use case. We don't like, uh,
like I haven't mostly used this one,
but there, uh, are people
who actually love this algorithm and all.
So that is the algorithm. I do think I'll actually skip this
algorithm for the later classes.
The next class will actually cover this one along with the a
and we'll start, so I'll actually show the code for this PCA
and this one, uh, this is the, uh, like, uh, this,
uh, Cain clustering.
Okay, we'll go through that one.
So, Uh, Sarah, I have one question. Yeah, please.
On slide number 10, uh, I have like, I
Slide number 10 for Cain clustering or pc
No, no, no, in pc.
Okay.
Yeah. Uh, sorry, not this one.
Uh, previously you showed me, right? Uh, two algorithms.
P, C, and uh, this TNC.
Okay. Okay. I think this one.
Alright, yeah, sorry.
Uh, so in that PCA, uh, you said, uh,
like this can be used for reducing the noise,
Uh, not reducing the noise, reducing the dimensions.
Okay. So like if we think about realtime applications,
like if I mm-hmm.
Like project 2D, uh, points from any image to 3D space.
Mm-hmm. Like can we apply PC there like, uh,
because PC usually from higher
dimension to lower dimension, right?
Yeah. So that is PCA's work.
If you want to do a lower dimension to higher dimension,
these algorithms are not useful
because these are like all always going for the compression,
higher dimension, lower dimension.
If you are to go for lower dimension, higher dimension, uh,
for which particular application you are talking.
Um, for 3D reconstruction, 3D
Reconstruction, we are having one concept
that is epi geometry, what is happening? Yes. Epi
Geometry homography. Yes. Yeah.
So you are losing the depth parameter. Yes.
And we try to triangulate from multiple,
like suppose I have a, this object that is a cup.
Mm-hmm. So if I'm taking, uh, multiple images, okay,
from a plane of this cup,
so I'll have multiple una angles of this cup.
And based on this triangulation, we try to back calculate
what is the distance of this cup from the camera.
And based on that we try to identify each of the, you know,
ages and points and everything of the cup
and trying to actually figure out the x,
y, z plane of this one.
So that is the idea of the, you know,
3D competi vision though.
So for those, these algorithms are not useful.
Mm-hmm. Okay. Okay.
Okay. Uh, anyways, uh, you can actually, uh, text me
or uh, or you can mail me.
I'll send you a, you know, YouTube link
where you can learn about this 3D reconstruction.
There's a very good, you know, uh, lecture series there,
so you can follow that one.
That is I think from some IT professor, um, I unable
to recall the name, but is a part of, uh,
NPTL lecture I guess.
Okay, yeah, I was following uh, Singapore.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's all. Yeah.
Okay, any other questions? Yeah, that's it. Thank you.
Okay, we'll go one by one.
Okay, so as you can see,
I have also included this Disney in this one.
So I'll actually phrase this one.
Uh, so what are the things we are including?
So we'll go one by one.
So MPA pandas plotting C one for also plotting
and these two algorithms, uh,
like the libraries you all already familiar, uh, now
for applying or checking the uh, PCA as well as the,
you know, the SCA in clustering,
we are loading this wine dataset, okay?
This is a part of your scallon dataset.
So IB dataset, wine data, multiple datasets are there.
So we are basically importing this
wine dataset from the LAN itself
and there will be actually using the PC algorithm along
with the, um, came in clustering.
And as we already discussed the, for the PC algorithm,
we have to have a minus one to plus one, you know,
distribution of the data point.
So we can have the mean value as zero.
So that is the one, uh, PCA we are importing, okay,
and came in, we are importing, okay.
Once it is done, we'll include the other.
So Data load first one. Okay?
Then we are having X and Y we have to segregate the data.
So in this data we'll have two, you know, segregation,
that is the one that is.data.
We presents the data values and dot, you know, target.
That means our feature names.
So that is the feature names we are having.
So we can write like this as well tf,
So able to understand clearly,
uh, feature name.
Okay,
So Target as in right, okay, okay.
Okay, sorry. Uh, this the like x, that is the data
and y that is the target value for like,
you know, extra extreme.
That is the like case that we are doing. Okay?
And the feature name we are having do feature name.
So there we are taking out the feature name.
So also like, just
because this is PCN for PCA
for Disney will be needing for PC and Caan clustering.
The feature name is not that required.
Okay?
Okay.
Here the Ds coming into play, play with this one only.
So
This the dataset we are talking about.
So we are having multiple features, okay?
So if I go here,
okay,
So multiple columns we are having,
so 1, 2, 3, 4 multiple columns there, okay?
If I go with the info,
I'll have more segregated information.
Let's go. So we are having total 12 number of 1213 number
of columns, okay?
And 1 78,
No uh, Entries are there.
So data points we are having on this, on that one,
Okay? Once
We have this one, we'll go to the next phase.
That is Scaling of the data,
Okay?
Then running the PCA, that's the thing we're doing.
So strip two print on this one, okay? PCA,
Uh, here as you know, input, Sorry,
No, This one,
wherever you actually doing the code, you need
to remember in this PCA,
this in components you are actually assigning this in.
Component is how many PCAs
or principle components you are extracting from the dataset.
So currently one 13 dimensions as we say, uh,
saw zero to 12, okay?
So total 13 dimension is there, okay?
1 78 data points are there.
Now you are actually basically converting this 13 dimension,
13 features into two features.
That is the usage of the PCA. You are doing that.
So let's just convert this one, okay? Okay, it is done.
Now we'll analyze how much percentage of the data
or value it is carrying.
Okay? So we are having this one, this PCA variance ratio,
we say,
Okay, so if I run this one, so it is saying
that I have roughly 55%
of the data value that is I'm having.
So out of 13 features I'm converting into, you know,
or two dimensions, I'm roughly having 55% of the data value.
Now suppose if to increase this one
or I can directly go with the screen plotting and all.
So suppose in the end component instead of two, I'm going
for three, right?
I have done this again and all.
So from two to three I have gained 11% of the value
that information gain I have done.
So this is how you can go either this way
or you can directly go and do the ski plotting
and uh, accumulate all of the PC principle component
and find out like how many dimensions you are,
like perfectly fine for your dataset.
That is the idea. So the PCA is already done, okay?
Now if I do this XPCA,
Yeah, If I now do print this one.
So we had initially said that PCA is equal to three,
the in component is equal to three, right?
So I should be having three dimensions.
So now if I printing out this one, this
Print Or that, I can go
Further Printing this one.
So I'm having three columns, okay?
Three features which are presenting your alcohol
or this wine dataset in three features.
That is the idea. Is it clear?
Yes sir. Yeah, thank you.
Now we'll go to the second variance.
That is the cain clustering.
Okay, Sir,
after PCA, can we do Cain, sir?
Yeah, you can use that data points for the like, you know,
using the clustering, uh,
but whenever actual new data points will come, again,
you have to apply the PCA
before actually going through that same, you know, pipeline,
uh, pushing to the
Claim distribution, sir.
Yeah. Thank you.
Yeah. So for the K means, again,
we are having one parameter that is very important,
just like your PCA in clusters in this one.
And we had in component in PCA.
So here we are setting that in musical three,
three clusters we want from the data points, okay?
And these data points, what about the data data set having
scaled that we are putting, okay,
Now We'll just assign this one.
Okay, Clustering is done.
Now we'll go for the visualization aspect
And We'll try to figure out how this visually looks
as a clusters fine for those thing.
Uh, let we go for this one.
Mm-hmm.
We see is this second,
this is more access.
Okay. Okay.
I'll copy the entire thing. I'll remove this thing
That is the Disney
is, this is is fine.
It is fine. Sky notice me.
I don't want to
check this.
Yeah,
Okay, I'll do a quick chat.
Um,
came in.
So I came in
fit predict label.
Yeah.
And there's one, so
as an output you can see though like three
or different, you know, plots have been there, the yellow
and this is like a dark or purple,
and there's a green color one side
and like a sea green kind of color.
So those have been data points which are being segregated.
Why that came in clusters.
Okay, if I want
to do this in a 3D plot,
A quick question.
Yeah. So these RA should be somewhere in between those,
uh, clusters, right?
Where they vary away from the cluster.
Mm-hmm. So for each of this, you know, yellow,
this green, this purple, uh, the center value
that will be uh, uh, their whole average.
So try to like think in this way
you are having the dataset 13 features, right?
So it is basically 13 dimension representation should be
there, but we are representing the 13 dimension data
into two dimension.
That is the X and Y plan.
So that is why we are unable
to see the segregation of the data points.
It is like overlapping of the data points we're seeing
because we are plotting the 13 dimension into two dimension.
Understood, sir? So can,
can we have a 3D plot here? So 3D plot
Also, I don't think it will segregate as much
because uh, it is a 13 dimension data.
That is the idea. Okay?
If you're doing the segregation, let me try.
There is the idea, okay, uh, roughly
We can go for,
Okay,
3, 8 3.
Okay.
So again, you are saying the, like,
you know, data points are
Like, You know, better than 2D,
but that is not very clear
because we are representing 13 dimension to data
and those clusters like humanly, that is not possible.
Now, if I actually convert these into PCA
and apply the clustering algorithm,
then it'll be segregated.
That is like you can do.
Yes, I understood. Yeah. Can we have a yes?
Yeah. Can we have a column mentioning that, uh,
which data points belong to which cluster?
Which, Yeah, which data point belong
to which cluster? The new column.
So the, the color color code is there, right? So each
Of the data points No, no,
I'm not talking about the graphs, sir.
Okay, I'm talking about the, uh, new column
and column, uh, uh, column we having the name
of the cluster, like 1, 2, 3, 4.
So for each row it can define the, uh,
this row belongs to which cluster
or data point belongs to which something like that.
Uh,
that that should
Possible, but not with visualization.
Yeah, no, no visualization.
I, I let's assume like an action.
Yeah, I got the idea. Suppose we are having already the
data points, the data set is there.
Yes. Now I want to add another column where I'll be, uh,
assigning that you belong to this cluster.
Yes. Yes sir. That is it.
Yeah. I never done that. Like
I do think like, so then we supervised learning.
Sorry, I think it's already there in the code.
I think you already did that.
Mm, the cluster on the school label, uh,
I think you created a column, right?
That is nothing but the label.
This is the label. Should I print this one? No.
Like I have to,
I think that's what you're doing, right? You're
assigning the cluster, uh, number to that, right?
You have three clusters, so 0 1, 2,
Like let's just print this one
and see what are the things that is we are discussing.
Yes.
Okay,
So you are having ha there's there.
Thank you. So we are having xxi yxi Z access.
So roughly, look, no columns are not there,
but rows identification you can find.
So row one, row two, row three.
And this belongs to which clusters
Not right for me.
Column wise, we can't get this
Co column. The
column are already converted into this one.
XZ we are doing. Yes, sir. Cluster level is there?
Yes. What it, yeah, thank you. So
Row wise you can identify?
Yes. Okay.
Okay then I guess I'll be seeing you next week.
Yeah, sure sir. Thank you sir. Uh,
Will there any assignments for this or,
Uh, uh, I don't think there,
there should be assignment next week when, uh,
we'll go through that one.
Disney, I can like, uh, push you for this like, uh,
Tiffany along with these two
and you can go for the assignment and whatever the a
and n topic, uh, we'll have a discussion
or overview from the next lab onwards.
We'll having, uh, like, uh, that A
and n will pick up for those.
Thanks. Thanks Sir. Uh, sir Psad here.
Last assignment, uh, they put us at 12:00 AM in the morning
as the deadline for the next day.
We missed it. Sir, can you please ask the TAs
to get it corrected?
Okay, fine. I'll have a word
With, we have been, yeah, requesting for multiple times
to get that adjusted,
but uh, sometimes uh, these type
of issues are creeping in while,
Yeah. Can, can we do one thing?
Can we create a WhatsApp groups
where like you can discuss the problems directly?
Like instead of waiting for the class,
you can directly the problems within the uh, WhatsApp group?
Yeah, there is a WhatsApp group, sir,
but uh, we have uh, we have also like, uh, using that
for most of our issues, but uh, is
It like a for the MTECH classes
or directly for the, uh, like a particular
LabTech only all type of issues or any communication?
We are using it. So if it comes from your side,
uh, that will be great. And
Lemme See whether I can create a,
This one.
How they create a group here.
Group, group, group, group, group
on the top sir.
Here too. Click on the top. That one? Yeah, this one.
This one too. Okay. New group. Thank you.
Okay, so group cam systems.
So that's not the group name, that's a graph.
The group just on the contact you need to add.
Okay. No, I can go paste it here in the chat, sir.
Yeah, should I copy
Chacha chat, chat, chat?
Yeah,
yeah, yeah.
So like, uh, try to join this one.
Okay. Just WhatsApp
Group. So what about
the problems you are having and facing?
You can directly or like a drop a text?
Uh, sir. Thank you. Yeah, we join sir.
Okay, thank you. Thanks.
Thank you sir. Okay.
Good night. Thank you, sir. Thank you sir.